README.md, before:

# Introduction 
This package can be used to simplify fetching and transforming data from the Google Analytics Data GA4 API. As of the time writing this, the GA4 API returns data in a Google object, which can be a hassle to parse and transform. Using this package, you can create a dictionary with your Google Analytics Property ID, as well as the desired Dimensions, Metrics, Order Bys, and Date Ranges you would like to query. By running the function `run_report_return_json` in `google_analytics_data_json.py`, you can call the GA4 API and retrieve data in JSON format. Using the Google GA4 Query Explorer, you can find all possible Metrics, Dimensions, Order Bys, and Date Ranges that can be used: https://ga-dev-tools.web.app/ga4/query-explorer/

# Installation
`pip install google-analytics-data-json`

# Getting Started
After installing the package in your virtual environment, add the `credentials.json` file to your project. Then, set an environment variable named `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` equal to the path of the previously mentioned `credentials.json` file. I also suggest to set your Property ID as an environment variable as well.

# Running The Project
The simpelest way to run the project is to import the function `run_report_return_json` from the file `google_analytics_data_json`. This function takes one parameter called an `analytics_dictionary`, which is used to fetch data from the API and return it in JSON format. The structure of the analytics dictionary should look like:

```python
{
    "property_id": "<your property_id>",
    "dimension_names": ["date", "country", "deviceCategory"],
    "metric_names": ["totalUsers", "newUsers"], 
    "order_by_names": [
        {
            "type": "dimension", 
            "value": "date", 
            "descending": False
        },
        {
            "type": "dimension",
            "value": "country", 
            "descending": True
        },
        {
            "type": "metric",
            "value": "newUsers", 
            "descending": True
        }
    ],
    "date_range_values": [
        {
            "start_date": "2022-07-01",
            "end_date": "2022-07-04"
        }
    ]
}
```

It is worth noting that the `dimension_names`, `metric_names`, `order_by_names`, and `date_range_values` are list objects, with the `order_by_names` and `date_range_values` requiring nested dictionaries as shown above. 

Although multiple date ranges can be used, the results from the API can be confusing if the dimension `date` is used - therefore, I suggest only using one date range dictionary if you plan querying the `date` dimension.

If you would like to take advantage of only the API call or only the data transformation, you can import the classes `Ga4Request` from `create_ga4_request.py` or `TransformGa4Data` from `transform_ga4_data.py`. This allows you to control the exact methods which are called in each class, although in most cases you will use all of them.

# Build and Test
The build and tests for the project are hosted here: https://github.com/DanielJerrehian/google_analytics_data_json <br>
The command `python -m unittest` can be used to run the unit tests. A coverage report can also be generated using `coverage run -m unittest` and then running `coverage html`.

Commit message:

Improve unit tests by using a recent date range (for testing on a new site)

README.md, after:

# Introduction 
This package can be used to simplify fetching and transforming data from the Google Analytics Data GA4 API. As of the time writing this, the GA4 API returns data in a Google object, which can be a hassle to parse and transform. Using this package, you can create a dictionary with your Google Analytics Property ID, as well as the desired Dimensions, Metrics, Order Bys, and Date Ranges you would like to query. By running the function `run_report_return_json` in `google_analytics_data_json.py`, you can call the GA4 API and retrieve data in JSON format. Using the Google GA4 Query Explorer, you can find all possible Metrics, Dimensions, Order Bys, and Date Ranges that can be used: https://ga-dev-tools.web.app/ga4/query-explorer/

# Installation
`pip install google-analytics-data-json`

# Getting Started
After installing the package in your virtual environment, add the `credentials.json` file to your project. Then, set an environment variable named `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` equal to the path of the previously mentioned `credentials.json` file. I also suggest to set your Property ID as an environment variable as well.

# Running The Project
The simpelest way to run the project is to import the function `run_report_return_json` from the file `google_analytics_data_json`. This function takes one parameter called an `analytics_dictionary`, which is used to fetch data from the API and return it in JSON format. The structure of the analytics dictionary should look like:

```python
{
    "property_id": "<your property_id>",
    "dimension_names": ["date", "country", "deviceCategory"],
    "metric_names": ["totalUsers", "newUsers"], 
    "order_by_names": [
        {
            "type": "dimension", 
            "value": "date", 
            "descending": False
        },
        {
            "type": "dimension",
            "value": "country", 
            "descending": True
        },
        {
            "type": "metric",
            "value": "newUsers", 
            "descending": True
        }
    ],
    "date_range_values": [
        {
            "start_date": "2022-07-01",
            "end_date": "2022-07-04"
        }
    ]
}
```

It is worth noting that the `dimension_names`, `metric_names`, `order_by_names`, and `date_range_values` are list objects, with the `order_by_names` and `date_range_values` requiring nested dictionaries as shown above. 

Although multiple date ranges can be used, the results from the API can be confusing if the dimension `date` is used - therefore, I suggest only using one date range dictionary if you plan querying the `date` dimension.

If you would like to take advantage of only the API call or only the data transformation, you can import the classes `Ga4Request` from `create_ga4_request.py` or `TransformGa4Data` from `transform_ga4_data.py`. This allows you to control the exact methods which are called in each class, although in most cases you will use all of them.

# Build and Test
The build and tests for the project are hosted here: https://github.com/DanielJerrehian/google_analytics_data_json

The command `python -m unittest` can be used to run the unit tests. A coverage report can also be generated using `coverage run -m unittest` and then running `coverage html`.

The following environment variables should be set for unit tests:
* `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`
* `GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_PROPERTY_ID`
